blog: November Community Gems (#3004)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2021-11-30-november-21-community-gems.md

data, you would run this command:

```dvc
$ dvc remove
```

### [When using a CML, are GitHub Actions, GitLab, and BitBucket the only options for CI?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/909847110306914345)

Currently, `cml runner` does not support CircleCI or droneCI self–hosted runners
and you would have to deploy them manually.

You can still use `cml send-comment`, `cml pr`, and the other CML tools with any
CI platform.

Thanks for this awesome question @tpietruszka!

### [When I run the `dvc remove` command, does it only remove .dvc files?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/905382438786715648)

A really good question from @flowy!

That is correct. Running `dvc remove` only removes DVC tracked files and
directories. It will also remove the entry from `.gitignore` and handles the
`dvc.yaml`.

If you still see a directory after you've removed a file from either DVC or Git,
that is because neither removes empty directories from your filesystem.

For example, if you run something like `dvc remove folder_name/file.dvc`, only
the `.dvc` file will be removed. If there is nothing else in the folder, you'll

> be left with an empty directory. You can remove it with a command like:

Reviewer: This still seems a little off to me since the question isn't specific to empty directories. What if there still is something in the folder? Normally, I would expect `folder_name/file` to exist if `folder_name/file.dvc` exists. In that case, `folder_name/file` would still exist after `dvc remove` unless you use `dvc remove --outs`.

Author: I think I cleared this up in the newest commit. Let me know if it makes sense!

````dvc

> $ rmdir folder_name

Reviewer: Looks like this code block is off (too many backticks at the top and none at the bottom).

---
title: November '21 Community Gems
date: 2021-11-30

> description: |

Reviewer 2: should be `>` to auto-format (in both places)

Reviewer 2: overall - same policy that we applied before - 80 symbols please

Author: I'm a little confused on the 80 character limit again. The descriptions are in the same format as the descriptions for previous community gems, which have more than 80 characters. So is this going to be the standard going forward?

Reviewer 2: It was always a standard to wrap lines at 80 symbols.

Using `>` instead of `|` (there are some caveats, but it almost always possible) automates this - linter will format everything for you appropriately. I've updated the most recent Gems (and all blogs, gems were updated a while ago to use `>`, but all of them were formatted at 80 symbols always).

  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC and CML community. This month: CML runners, working with data, DVC Studio, and more.
descriptionLong: |
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC and CML community. This month: CML runners, working with data, DVC Studio, and more.

> picture: 2021-11-30/nov-community-gems.png

Reviewer 2: image is missing still

Author: Yes, that is still left as a thing to update in the PR description. @jendefig has requested it and it should be ready by the time we merge tomorrow.

author: milecia_mcgregor
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/november-21-community-gems/964
tags:

>   - Data Versioning

Reviewer 2: what question corresponds to this tag?

Author: `What's the recommended way to remove data that has been imported using `dvc import`?`

Reviewer 2: it's very hard to connect, Data Versioning sounds too generic. If we usually tend to include DVC into gem tags, let's include `DVC` then, similar to CML? Btw, do we usually include CML as a tag - it's also too generic,. wdyt?

Author: These are a part of the tags we talked about listed here: https://www.notion.so/iterative/Writing-Community-Gems-3f86bbbe4b494cbb8df7dcb7c952281e#d656dfe398444e5ab9b70709a93694ae

I'll add the `DVC` tag. I think it's ok if they are a little generic as long as there is something related to the tag in the post. The purpose of tags is to show people similar types of posts and if we get too specific then we'll end up with tags that are only relevant to one post.

I'm open to other ideas though!

  - DVC Studio
  - CML
  - Community
---

### [What would be the cleanest, most Pythonic way to run DVC commands from inside a Python script if we want to avoid calling the subprocess library?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/895570704605528094)

That's a really good question @mihaj!

If you want to run DVC commands in a Python script, you have a couple of
options.

You can work with the `main` module from the `dvc` library. This is the more
CLI-like option. An example of running an experiment would look something like
this.

```python
from dvc.main import main

main(["exp", "run"])
```

The other option you have is to use the `Repo API`. This API is largely
undocumented at the moment, but it closely mirrors the CLI commands. One
exception is that they will return internal data structures instead of exit
codes.

Here's an example of running an experiment with the Repo API.

```python
from dvc.repo import Repo

repo = Repo()

> repo.add()

Reviewer 2: is it a valid command? does it actually expect something?

Author: I found that the `repo.add()` command expects `targets` as a parameter, so I decided to remove it to avoid making this more complicated. Instead I have the `repo.experiments.run()` command to run the experiment and then show the table.

repo.experiments.show()

> etc...

Reviewer 2: make it a Python comment

│ │ ╟ 93d015d             │    2 │ 0.83197 │ 0.41333 │ 0.36851 │   3.4259 │ 0.001 │ 0.09     │
│ │ ╟ d474c42             │    1 │ 0.79918 │ 0.43333 │ 0.46612 │    3.286 │ 0.001 │ 0.09     │
│ ├─╨ 1582b4b             │    0 │ 0.52869 │    0.39 │ 0.94102 │   2.5967 │ 0.001 │ 0.09     │
└─────────────────────────┴──────┴─────────┴─────────┴─────────┴──────────┴───────┴──────────┘
```

### [What's the recommended way to remove data that has been imported using `dvc import`?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/898462029650735134)

Great question @MadsO!

This works the exact same as when you've added data with `dvc add`. So to remove
data, you would run this command:

```dvc
$ dvc remove
```

### [When using a CML, are GitHub Actions, GitLab, and BitBucket the only options for CI?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/909847110306914345)

Currently, `cml runner` does not support CircleCI or droneCI self–hosted runners
and you would have to deploy them manually.

You can still use `cml send-comment`, `cml pr`, and the other CML tools with any
CI platform.

Thanks for this awesome question @tpietruszka!

> ### [When I run the `dvc remove` command, does it only remove .dvc files?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/905382438786715648)

Reviewer 2: .dvc -> `.dvc`

A really good question from @flowy!

That is correct. Running `dvc remove` only removes DVC tracked files and
directories. It will also remove the entry from `.gitignore` and handles the
`dvc.yaml`.

For example, if you run something like `dvc remove folder_name/file.dvc`, only
the `.dvc` file will be removed. So your updated directory would likely still
have `folder_name/file` since that was the file being tracked.

If you wanted to remove the tracked file as well, you would need to run
`dvc remove --outs`. This command removes the outputs of any target.

If there is nothing else in the folder, you'll be left with an empty directory.
You can remove it and stop tracking in Git with a command like:

````dvc
$ git rm -r folder_name

> 

Reviewer 2: should be "```" here, content is broken now

### [Can DVC Studio be connected to a self-managed GitLab repo?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/841856466897469441/907468264882462800)

Very good question about Studio @Sra!

> Right now this only works if it's an on-premise network or a private VPC

Reviewer 2: on-premises

network.

We are working on bringing custom-domain GitLab as a feature very soon! You can
follow
[this GitHub issue](https://github.com/iterative/studio-support/issues/12) and
leave comments for anything you'd like to see!

### [Is there a way to extend default job execution time for a CML runner?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/904660123161600021)

There is definitely a way to do this!

You can extend the max time in your CI by adding something like this:

```dvc
train:
    timeout-minutes: 5000

> ````

Reviewer 2: fix the markup

```dvc
$ dvc remove
```

### [When using a CML, are GitHub Actions, GitLab, and BitBucket the only options for CI?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/909847110306914345)

Currently, `cml runner` does not support CircleCI or droneCI self–hosted runners
and you would have to deploy them manually.

You can still use `cml send-comment`, `cml pr`, and the other CML tools with any
CI platform.

Thanks for this awesome question @tpietruszka!

### [When I run the `dvc remove` command, does it only remove .dvc files?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/905382438786715648)

A really good question from @flowy!

That is correct. Running `dvc remove` only removes DVC tracked files and
directories. It will also remove the entry from `.gitignore` and handles the
`dvc.yaml`.

For example, if you run something like `dvc remove folder_name/file.dvc`, only
the `.dvc` file will be removed. So your updated directory would likely still
have `folder_name/file` since that was the file being tracked.

If you wanted to remove the tracked file as well, you would need to run
`dvc remove --outs`. This command removes the outputs of any target.

> If there is nothing else in the folder, you'll be left with an empty directory.
> You can remove it with a command like:
> 
> ```dvc
> $ rmdir folder_name
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is nothing else in the folder, you'll be left with an empty directory.
You can remove it and stop tracking in Git with a command like:

```dvc
$ git rm -r folder_name
```

It makes sense now, but I'd use the Git command to show how to also stop tracking the folder in Git unless there's a reason to prefer `rmdir`.

That's a really good question @mihaj!

If you want to run DVC commands in a Python script, you have a couple of
options.

You can work with the `main` module from the `dvc` library. This is the more
CLI-like option. An example of running an experiment would look something like
this.

```python
from dvc.main import main

main(["exp", "run"])
```

The other option you have is to use the `Repo API`. This API is largely
undocumented at the moment, but it closely mirrors the CLI commands. One
exception is that they will return internal data structures instead of exit
codes.

Here's an example of running an experiment with the Repo API.

```python
from dvc.repo import Repo

repo = Repo()
repo.experiments.run()
repo.experiments.show()
# etc...
```

### [How can you check if a DVC tracked directory has changes?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/899693929560158218)

Good question from @edran!

You can check which directories have been changed by running:

```dvc
$ dvc status
```

This will give you an output similar to this in your terminal:

> ```dvc

Reviewer 2: dvc -> yaml?

have `folder_name/file` since that was the file being tracked.

If you wanted to remove the tracked file as well, you would need to run
`dvc remove --outs`. This command removes the outputs of any target.

If there is nothing else in the folder, you'll be left with an empty directory.
You can remove it and stop tracking in Git with a command like:

```dvc
$ git rm -r folder_name
```

### [Can DVC Studio be connected to a self-managed GitLab repo?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/841856466897469441/907468264882462800)

Very good question about Studio @Sra!

Right now this only works if it's an on-premises network or a private VPC
network.

We are working on bringing custom-domain GitLab as a feature very soon! You can
follow
[this GitHub issue](https://github.com/iterative/studio-support/issues/12) and
leave comments for anything you'd like to see!

### [Is there a way to extend default job execution time for a CML runner?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/904660123161600021)

There is definitely a way to do this!

You can extend the max time in your CI by adding something like this:

> ```dvc

Reviewer 2: dvc -> yaml

train:
    timeout-minutes: 5000
```

If you're using GitLab, the same update would look similar to this:

> ```dvc

Reviewer 2: dvc -> yaml
